[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Raise your hand
if you have the
perfect love life.
If your hand's in the
air, congratulations.
Most of us struggle
throughout our lifetime
trying to find that sweet spot
of passionate, ecstatic love
with our partners, while
maintaining careers, raising
kids, and quarreling over money.
For the most part,
the sex suffers.
Ellen Eatough, called
The Soulful Sex Coach,
has been one of those women who
has found the keys to enjoying
an ecstatic love life
with her partner.
Her other passion is
to help others identify
the blocks to transcendent
sex and establish a deeper,
even mystical connection
with our partners.
I know a lot of people
are looking for that.
We tend to throw up
every roadblock we can.
But I have one question.
And that is, is it true that
the honeymoon has to end?
>>ELLEN EATOUGH:
I don't think so.
I think that relationships
will definitely change,
and the brain chemistry
changes the longer
you've been with somebody.
So it will change.
To maybe by definition of
honeymoon, it has to end.
But the love and the
sex and the intimacy
can grow and get better and
better through the years.
>>REGINA: I know.
I always hear people say, oh,
come on grow up, get real.
You're too idealistic.
Of course the honeymoon
period has to end.
And when I think of
the honeymoon period,
I think of that kind of
tender connectedness,
and the choice to be
connected, and to make
the relationship a priority as
part of the honeymoon period.
And I've never understood
why it does have to end.
That just sounds
like a cop-out so
that we can become lazy and fall
into bad habits, which we do.
Sounds like a cop-out to me.
But in any event, I just
wanted your take on it.
>>EATOUGH: Well it
also depends on how
late into the relationship
the honeymoon actually occurs.
Because in the first
period of time,
there's brain chemistry that
actually is like being on a--
>>REGINA: On a drug.
>>EATOUGH: On an addictive drug.
Yes.
And the blinders are on.
The rest of our life
falls into the fog
as we focus all of our energy
and attention on this person.
And then also, people often
think of the honeymoon
as having sex five times a day.
And so that's going to change.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>EATOUGH: But it can
be less frequent sex
that's even better.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
The sweetness can
still be there.
I think, anyway.
OK.
First of all, let's get
into introducing you
to the viewers a
little bit, because you
have an interesting background.
And you kind of backed into
this whole soulful sex thing.
It wasn't what
you set out to do.
>>EATOUGH: Never.
I would have been the last
one in my high school class
to be voted to have anything
to do with sexuality for work,
that's for sure.
>>REGINA: I love it.
And so you were
a hypnotherapist,
but you also got your master's
in East-West Psychology.
And you were really trying
to put the pieces together as
to the deeper functioning
of the human psyche.
>>EATOUGH: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about that journey
and how you ended up bumping
into this whole ecstatic sex
area that you have
now made your life.
>>EATOUGH: Well,
I had always been
interested in spiritual
development, in psychology,
in the connection between
science and spirituality.
And also, I'd always
been interested
in deeper and deeper levels
of intimate relationship.
And wanting to connect that
with my spiritual sense
or spiritual source.
So those were ongoing
interests in my life.
And so I was thrilled
to find that there
was a master's degree program
in East-West Psychology, which
is a marriage of Western
psychology and Eastern
spiritual traditions.
So that was a
perfect fit for me.
And during that time, I
actually ended up spontaneously
discovering this whole
sexual spiritual connection
through personal experience.
>>REGINA: Yes
>>EATOUGH: Kind of got
catapulted into this.
>>REGINA: And after
that, you have
to say, oh my god,
what just happened?
How do I maintain it?
And then, how do you
teach others, ultimately.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
So my partner and I are
looking at each other going
like, well, how come nobody
ever told us that this existed?
And I was motivated to
somehow try to share that.
Because I was already working
with people on releasing issues
which tended to skew toward
sexual and relationship
wounding and trauma.
So I'd been doing that
for a number of years
before we even met.
But now I was
inspired to take it
to the positive side of
the spectrum and say,
wow, how do we help people
experience this exalted realm
in sexuality?
And then I discovered
in my graduate program,
when I heard a speaker, that
there was research happening
on this, and we
weren't the only ones.
>>REGINA: And this is
beyond Masters and Johnsons
kind of research?
>>EATOUGH: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
So first of all, maybe
just share with us
the characteristics of what
an ecstatic sexual experience
is like.
>>EATOUGH: Well, it
can vary tremendously.
But my personal definition
is a combination
of intense sexual
physical pleasure combined
with deep emotional intimacy
and a sense of spiritual union.
That's union-- I can talk about
the difference between those.
>>REGINA: Right.
Sure.
And I would think
a lot of-- even
if you're in an exalted
state doing something else,
there must be a
timelessness quality to it.
>>EATOUGH: Oh, yeah.
You can find God
taking out the garbage.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>EATOUGH: But it's
a little more fun
when you're having sex.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>EATOUGH: And there's
an energy to it.
There's an energy to
sexuality that, if our energy
channels are open, can
flow and can heighten
the experience tremendously.
>>REGINA: Yet it seems like
we have a tremendous amount--
a huge percentage
of the population
has a tremendous amount invested
in throwing up boundaries
and blocks, blockading ourselves
through some kind of fear
of maybe past trauma, maybe
fear of some kind of future pain
or loss, against
the openness that's
required to have these
kinds of experiences.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And I don't think it's
a conscious investment
against opening up.
>>REGINA: It's
usually subconscious.
>>EATOUGH: And there's so many
thousands of years of history,
really, repressing
and suppressing
our natural sexual expression,
that vital life force.
It's just a natural
expression of life and nature.
But we've got so many cultural
and religious inhibitions
that, in addition to
all the personal family
stuff and relationship
stuff we've
all been through, this
wounding and makes
us feel vulnerable and
reluctant to really come out.
>>REGINA: And that's
one area where
we tend to come out less
than any other area.
People can show up and have
sex and even have orgasms.
That doesn't mean
you're showing up.
That's just the physical
component of it.
But that's not the
part you're addressing.
That's different.
If you have physical
difficulties,
it can be related to trauma.
>>EATOUGH: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: But you're
really looking
at something more
transcendent than that.
>>EATOUGH: I am.
And I didn't know that the
physical part could even
get so much better when the
other aspects are in play.
>>REGINA: In alignment.
Let's talk about
it a little bit.
You just kind of
briefly tapped on it.
That when you were dealing with
your hypnotherapy clients, who
I assume came in for
a variety of issues
that they were looking to heal,
almost in a Freudian sense,
that the sex seemed to be
at the basis of an awful lot
of the people's difficulties.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And some were conscious
of it and some weren't.
My first client happened to be--
and I didn't put out my shingle
to deal with sexual issues.
I was looking to deal
with whatever people
wanted to release or deal with.
Chronic pain, head trauma,
migraines, whatever.
My first client
just happened to be
a man who'd been molested by
his uncle when he was seven.
So he was very conscious of
what he wanted to work on.
And I had people come
to me because they've
suffered great pain in
relationships, it hurts,
and they wanted
to get through it
so they could move on to
a new love life somehow.
But I've also had people
who had chronic pain.
And they didn't know that it
related to relationship issues.
>>REGINA: Give us an
example, maybe, of a client.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
I had a woman who,
she'd had decades
worth of abdominal pain.
And all the doctors couldn't
figure out what was wrong,
said it was all in her head.
And we started-- I don't
purposefully regress people,
but the way that I
work with people,
with colored light projected
into the eyes, combined with--
>>REGINA: Very potent.
>>EATOUGH: --eye movement,
and taking people
through-- the light
I work with has
an adjustable
strobic flicker rate.
And so I can help people slow
down into the kind of state
you would be in during
hypnotic induction.
So we're going into a slower
brainwave state, which gives us
more access to our
physical sensations,
our emotional state,
more visual imagery, sort
of more like a dream state.
And with eye movement, the
thing about eye movement
is whenever we have
experiences and our eyes
are in certain positions, if
they're painful experiences,
our eyes will not want
to go there again.
>>REGINA: Really.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So what
does this look like?
>>EATOUGH: You've heard of EMDR?
>>REGINA: Oh yeah.
>>EATOUGH: So eye
movement, pushing the brain
to access those places
where we're uncomfortable,
can help release, and then
help the process finish.
>>REGINA: But we don't allow
our eyes to go to that place
because we don't want
to access the painful.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And it's totally unconscious.
But if we can be guided to move
our eyes into these positions,
it just helps us complete
the emotional processing that
got halted, which is what causes
these blocks to get locked in.
In working with this--
and people often
will go into a regression of
some sort, either in this life,
or what seems to be past lives.
And so this woman
with chronic pain,
she started to realize that
her husband and some other man
that she knew that she had
an emotional connection with,
she'd been relating
to from what seemed
to be a number of past lives.
And there were battles,
and sword in the side,
and these different
kinds of stories.
They just got released.
She went-- [SIGHS] All the story
and all the emotional stuff
that hadn't been
processed at the time.
Emotions in and of
themselves don't block us.
It's that when they get--
>>REGINA: Repressed.
>>EATOUGH: --repressed
or blocked that they then
solidify and start
blocking our energy
and cause us to want
to put up barriers.
And so when she finished
processing all this stuff,
[LOUD EXHALE] it wasn't
just understanding it.
It was experiencing
the release of that.
Her chronic pain went away.
Her relationship
with her husband
just got great, which had been
a struggle for many years.
>>REGINA: That's amazing.
And not only that,
I love the fact
that you use that technology.
You're really big
into frequencies.
And frequencies are the
healing of the future.
They've always been.
We've just been using
other ways to access them.
>>EATOUGH: You know why?
I think it's because the more
subtle we go, the more powerful
it is.
>>REGINA: You are right.
>>EATOUGH: If you're burning
a log, you can get fire,
you can get heat.
You burn that log and
you keep putting logs on,
and you're going to get
a certain amount of heat.
But if you go to
the molecular level,
you go to the atomic level,
and you activate that--
you get an atomic bomb--
>>REGINA: Yes.
Absolutely true.
>>EATOUGH: The smaller
you go, the more subtle
you go in the structure,
the more power it has.
And that's why I think
subtle energy is so--
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
And not only that--
color and light.
You're talking about
very pure frequencies.
And doing a hypnotic induction
with someone who's already
been traumatized through
frequency bypasses
the resistance of the
mind anyway to say,
you're not going
to hypnotize me.
Uh-uh.
I hear everything you say.
I'm not going anywhere.
The thing that people do.
You've just bypassed
all that by using
this incredible technology.
So you've set people
into this state of grace
to look around and experience.
Congratulations on that.
I love what you're
doing with that.
>>EATOUGH: Well, I was
just following the--
>>REGINA: No, that's beautiful.
>>EATOUGH: --course.
>>REGINA: OK.
So going back into it.
When you're looking at
the culture at large,
sexually, you talk
about a sacred wound
that this culture
and many others have.
>>EATOUGH: Actually, I
was teaching a workshop
at a retreat center
in Austin, Texas.
And I was having
dinner with someone
who was teaching another
workshop at the same time.
And she said, I
noticed people who
work with people's wounding
often have wounds of their own.
So she said, what's your wound?
And she really stopped me cold.
I went, gee, I don't know.
I've done all of
this processing work.
I don't think I've had personal
sexual traumas and so forth.
And suddenly I went, oh my god.
It's the wound that is the
split between sexuality
and spirituality.
And I hadn't really put words
around that until that time.
But I know that was
profound for me.
And I think it's
profound in the culture.
And it's in Eastern culture.
It's in Western Christianity.
It's somehow we can't be
both embodied and sexual
and have that raw life
force vitality operating us
and enjoy pleasure.
Hedonism.
If you're going to be spiritual,
you have to be above that.
But no.
It's all of it.
People talk about
being one with God.
Well, we are God.
And so it's all of it.
>>REGINA: Well, let's talk
about what happened then,
historically, that helped put
that wedge between our body
and spirit.
Let's go back to the time-- and
you speak about this, I know.
Let's go back to the
time of the elevation
of the mind among the
Greek philosophers.
Many of whom were
gay at the time.
It was largely known that
most of the great philosophers
were homosexual.
>>EATOUGH: But it really doesn't
matter, because they probably
enjoy sex too at the time.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
But I'm talking only
about the woman part.
>>EATOUGH: Well, first of
all, they elevated the psyche
over the soma.
The soma is the physical.
And the psyche,
for them, was more
of the mental, spiritual
aspect of life.
They kind of combined those.
And the psyche was
definitely elevated.
So that's really the
masculine and the feminine.
So the soma was
the feminine, which
is the physical, which
is the emotional.
It has to do with the feminine,
menstruation and childbirth.
Sort of the, quote, messy
side of life, emotions
and physicality.
And so I think that
was-- and I'm not
going to who thinks-- that
was the beginning of misogyny.
But this was also happening
in Eastern cultures.
I heard a female Tibetan
monk speak of this.
And she was saying in Eastern
cultures, the same thing.
The idea is to reach
Nirvana or Samadhi
or whatever your
tradition calls it.
That that's a better.
You transcend the physical.
>>REGINA: To elevate
beyond the physical world.
Right.
>>EATOUGH: As if the
physical isn't also
an expression of the God force.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And the feminine is--
and I mean the feminine
within men and women.
I'm speaking
feminine, not woman.
The feminine is rooted in
the emotions, the intuitive
understanding of what
is in the environment,
and the physicality.
And what happens when we
deny that aspect of self?
We're looking at
the repercussions
of it thousands of years later.
>>EATOUGH: And so
that's where the split.
We've talked about the
Madonna-whore complex.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
OK.
So do you want to
back it up a bit?
Or do you feel comfortable--
I don't know if you do this.
Backing it up a
bit to Pagan times,
when the feminine was a little
more-- not a little more.
Was fully honored.
>>EATOUGH: Well, there
was more balance then.
I'm not a scholar in Wicca
or Paganism and so forth.
But it was nature-based,
as I understand it.
And the vital life
force of nature.
Nature has its birth,
growth, and death cycles.
And so do we, as
a part of nature.
And sexuality is
just an expression
of that vital life force.
And it was honored, and
feminine was revered.
And the Goddess was often
revered in these cultures.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And so here we go, we go
through these other periods
a couple thousand years ago.
We fall into a state of the
patriarchy, which almost
went hand-in-hand with
misogyny, just the way it was.
The female was demoted.
Everything feminine,
the feminine aspect
of self, man and
woman, was demoted
to an inferior, as you say,
rather messy kind of business.
So now what happens
when you bring religion
into the picture?
>>REGINA: Well, it's
just exacerbating it.
Christianity
certainly does that.
There's a lot of evidence
that Jesus was married,
but nobody will-- Christianity,
the whole virgin thing
is really emphasized.
He came from a virgin,
and she didn't have sex.
In Catholicism, the
Virgin Mary is revered.
Interestingly, Judaism, a
man having sex with his wife
is performing a mitzvah.
So it's actually, I think, less
of an issue in Judaism, as far
as what I've noticed,
than in Christianity--
>>REGINA: And some
of the other--
>>EATOUGH: --and a lot
of the other religions.
>>REGINA: There is
someone who speaks
about this in another way,
though, and someone I think
is wonderful.
Rocco Errico.
>>EATOUGH: Yes.
>>REGINA: We love him.
He's an Aramaic scholar.
And he really shines a
totally different light
on the original teachings,
or the original scriptures,
that became the Bible.
What is this book?
God, Sex, and the Bible.
>>EATOUGH: I don't know if
that's a book, but he talks--
>>REGINA: He talks about it.
>>EATOUGH: I took a
three-day workshop with him.
God, Sex, and the Bible.
And he teaches clergy.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I know he does.
So let's talk about his
reflection of sex-- God, sex,
and the Bible.
>>EATOUGH: Well, first of
all, he's pretty convinced
that if it wasn't
mentioned in the Bible
that Jesus wasn't
married, it's almost
assumed that he would be,
because all men of that age
were married.
It just wouldn't
have been an issue
that you would write about.
>>REGINA: Because it was part of
the rabbinical tradition, too.
>>EATOUGH: Right, right.
And I asked him, though.
I said, well, do you see sex
as a gateway to the divine?
He said, no.
Sex is divine.
We are God expressed, or
pressed out into human form.
And sexuality is God
And I went, yes!
>>REGINA: Yes, Rocco!
Another score for Rocco.
>>EATOUGH: We don't
have to use sex
to get there, although
I think it helps
us tap into the awareness of it.
But we're already here.
We're already God pressed
out into human form.
And I love that term.
>>REGINA: I love that term, too.
And yet, that's not
how most people feel.
Most people feel shut down.
>>EATOUGH: Most people
who are spiritual are
trying to get there.
And I think that's
part of the problem.
Is that they're trying to
get to a spiritual state.
And they think, then,
they have to override
some of the physical.
I think that's a common thing.
And you were talking about
the larger historical cycle,
so to speak.
And a lot will say now that
we've really kind of maxed out
on the masculine
emphasis in the culture.
What we're doing to the planet.
And that we're starting
to tip the scales
and moving more
into the feminine
and gradually moving toward
a more balanced state.
>>REGINA: Which is
interesting, because when
you look at the
reflections around us
in terms of activism, the first
thing we're trying to recover
is the Earth.
Man and woman alike are
trying to recover the Earth--
the greatest physical
expression that we're
experiencing besides
our own bodies.
So it is.
We are putting emphasis back
onto the material world.
And this is a really kind of
troubling misinterpretation
that has occurred, to denigrate
the material world when
we as souls have
chosen to incarnate
into physical vehicles to
have a physical experience
blended with the true nature
and bliss of the soul itself.
And so what you're
doing is taking
that into the sexual form,
or the sexual relationship
between two individuals.
You're talking about
the transcendent part,
really, as a spiritual journey.
>>EATOUGH: It really is.
And from very early on
in this relationship,
I just said, making
love is like prayer.
It's like my spiritual practice.
And really deeply fulfilling,
sort of spiritually connected
lovemaking is so healing.
And I think if more and more
people were to experience this,
that it's part of the
healing of the planet that
has to take place.
And it has a spillover effect.
It has a spillover
effect in families.
Look where kids get
their sexual information.
The internet and their friends.
But if they've got
modeling-- they
don't have to see their
parents making love.
They get the vibe if parents
have a great sex life.
It spills over.
The energetics of it spill
over into the family.
And it models in the family.
And it also spills over
into their work lives.
People have more
energy and vitality
for sharing whatever their
passion and purpose in life
is when they have
a great sex life.
And I think it spills
over into the community.
It's like as Gandhi said.
You have to start with yourself.
Be the change.
Save the planet, save your--
>>REGINA: Well, and even
on a quantum physics level,
it's becoming fairly
well understood--
and HeartMath Institute is doing
some really interesting stuff
with it, and the Global
Coherence Initiative.
That the human emotional
field is intimately
intertwined with the
emotional field of the Earth.
The Earth has its
own emotional grid.
Those energies are
completely mixed together.
What happens to
the Earth when you
have a species that are
shut down and repressed
and blocked on their most
innate spiritual levels?
>>EATOUGH: That's a
really good point.
>>REGINA: And can't
release on those levels.
That stagnates the
entire relationship
of the matrix between
Earth and human.
Which is its own part
of the galactic complex.
And so when you're talking about
this, what I'm hearing you say
and what I'm feeling
is that you're
looking at people who have
moved beyond these blocks,
and who have released the
deepest part of themselves
through this
physical experience.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
But it's an ongoing process.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>EATOUGH: I don't think you
just like release them all
and then you have great sex.
>>REGINA: I agree.
>>EATOUGH: I think it's
an ongoing process,
and it's layers.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>EATOUGH: I don't
know a person who
can grow up in Western culture
without some kind of wounding.
That's why I think
it's so important
to have these
anti-bullying activities.
Because these little
things can block us.
Being told to shut up
too many times as a child
will block us here.
That's so connected to
our sexuality, actually.
>>REGINA: You talk about that.
The pelvis and the jaw are
related to one another.
>>EATOUGH: Energetically
and anatomically.
Any physical therapist will tell
you that the pelvis and the jaw
are related.
Singers who, when their throats
are constricted, they're often
told to relax their PC muscles.
And it helps open the throat.
And energetically, the second
chakra, the sexual energy,
the creativity, it's the polar.
It's not exactly number wise,
but it's related to the jaw.
And when we are shut down in
our verbal self-expression,
our truth-telling.
As a child, kids are often
able to see human relationship
dynamics, or they can comment.
They speak the truth.
And grown-ups don't like that.
And so they're often
told that they are wrong.
That what they observed or
interpreted is inaccurate.
They stop trusting themselves.
And they're often told to shut
up, be quiet, not be heard.
>>REGINA: So this
is shutting down
your potential sexual
experience before you're even
in kindergarten.
>>EATOUGH: Absolutely.
I had a lot of that, because
I was a talker, and still am.
But I got told to be quiet a
lot by teachers and counselors
and so forth.
It's a real block.
And so if we can't
express ourselves,
then when we start to, it
feels really vulnerable.
And if you make a foray into
self-expression and somebody
doesn't like it, then it's like,
ooh, I'll never do that again.
And that causes us to contract.
It's like an energy pipeline.
You can have physical
orgasms and so forth
and have that kind of pleasure.
But if you're really going
to feel the full vital life
force flowing through us, and
that whole physical, emotional,
spiritual integration,
then we've
got to get that pipeline freed
up, and the energy flowing.
And that's a profoundly--
>>REGINA: It's
profound, but it--
>>EATOUGH: --fantastic
experience.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
But it takes a great
deal of maturity.
This is the thing.
That this whole subject of
being truthful and honest,
which is the basis
of trust-- and we'll
go into the trust
factor in a little bit,
and what lack of trust does.
We first talked about a moment
ago holding back our truths.
What happens if we actually
start sharing our truths?
Because we're a
conflicted species.
We have a lot of stuff
that should be shared.
However, it's always
at the risk of loss.
It's at the risk of
damaging your relationship,
maybe losing the relationship.
So people live in
these devitalized zones
of compromise.
And that is the basis--
>>EATOUGH: That's a
good way of putting it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And that's the basis of
a lot of relationships.
You love certain things
about your partner.
There are other things that
are really untenable to having
this open, juicy relationship.
You can't mention it.
You can't talk about it.
>>EATOUGH: There's
always a tradeoff.
First of all, there are
ways to communicate.
Blurting things out
at inappropriate times
or at stressful
times is probably not
a great way to start.
And starting with an
atomic bomb is probably
not the best way to start.
So developing a
practice of being
truthful about how
you feel and how
various things that
your partner does
might affect you so that they're
aware of the impact of things
that are happening.
Or starting to share the way
that-- just your real feelings.
Or sexually, maybe,
what would be helpful
for you to enhance
your pleasure.
People are terrified--
>>REGINA: They are.
>>EATOUGH: --of talking
about that sort of thing.
So then, when you get
to bigger issues--
if you start practicing,
you get to bigger issues,
you've got a relationship
foundation to work with.
But if there are things that you
want to share with your partner
and it really does
risk the relationship,
then you have to decide,
well do I prefer--
and there's no
judgment about this.
There are situations where-- do
I prefer to stay in a situation
where we maintain the family
in one household, where there's
a certain amount of security,
where we maybe we've
got a business
partnership of some kind
as well, whatever it is.
Am I willing to sort of
throttle some aspect of myself
in exchange for that?
Whereas the other side of it
might be to take the chance,
and you may or may
not get through it.
If it's a big deal, like
infidelities and so forth.
You don't know for sure if
you're going to get through it.
Some relationships get better
after that sort of thing
comes out.
>>REGINA: That's
because it's cathartic.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And if they get the proper
assistance, the processing.
But not always.
It can be the end.
So it's like, well, is
it more important to me
at this stage in
my life to be free?
And I don't mean free
from the relationship.
Free from--
>>REGINA: In terms of
that static quality.
>>EATOUGH: --holding
myself back.
Free from not being myself.
To be free to be myself.
Is it more important to be
free, to be self-expressive,
to be honest and truthful?
And then suffer whatever the
consequences are and work it
out the best we can.
And there is no right
answer for everything.
>>REGINA: No, there is not.
It depends also on Maslow's
hierarchy of needs.
What is our hierarchy of needs
at a given phase of our lives?
And it might be when we're in
our '20s, we need that freedom,
and just to dowse around
and see who we are.
And then we go into
the next phase,
where maybe we
need that security.
And maybe when
that phase is done,
maybe we need to, now that
we've put it all together
and finished some of the tough
years and the child-rearing,
maybe we need to have that
really fulfilled expression.
>>EATOUGH: But you know,
that freedom in the 20s
is not the same freedom
as it can be later.
>>REGINA: No, exactly.
>>EATOUGH: Because it can
be freedom like freedom
to have lots of
relationships or go travel
around the world or
play gypsy of whatever.
But it's not necessarily the
freedom to, first of all,
even recognize and own who
you are and what you feel
and what you want to
express, and the freedom
to express those deeper
aspects of yourself.
>>REGINA: Well, the
wisdom isn't there.
Usually the development isn't
there yet on a spiritual level.
Some of the younger kids coming
in are coming in more lit up.
But up until this
period of time,
most people aren't that lit
up spiritually in their 20s.
That's why I was saying the term
dowsing around for ourselves.
Just trying to figure
out what we are,
what we want to do next.
>>EATOUGH: But speaking of
Maslow's hierarchy of needs,
he speaks of ecstatic or
mystical or transcendent
experiences.
And he, as well as some
other people-- maybe
you want to get into
this later, so we
don't have to get into this now.
>>REGINA: No, go ahead.
>>EATOUGH: But he
talks about what
he's noticed is
that, first of all,
he noticed the most common
triggers of these kinds
of experiences
are music and sex,
and sex being the most profound
of them, the most common.
And that he
associated people who
have evolved more on
the personal development
level of the hierarchy
of needs tend
to be more inclined to have more
frequent ecstatic or mystical
experiences in general.
And I'm not speaking
of just sexual.
So as we get older, all of
these things come into place.
>>REGINA: We always
think that in your 20s
is when sex is at the top
of the hierarchy of needs.
But the reality is
transcendent sex
isn't exactly the same thing
you're looking for your 20s
as you might be looking
for later in your 40s,
50s, 60s and so forth.
>>EATOUGH: Wow, if
we only-- if we'd
known when we were-- if
the young folks only knew,
they would be looking
forward to getting older.
>>REGINA: What was possible.
But meanwhile, we
beat ourselves up,
and we beat each
other up, and go
into these states of
mistrust, distrust.
And when there isn't
trust at the basis, what's
kind of the best
you can hope for?
And then dealing with
your hypnotherapy clients,
you had to deal with
trust issues all the time.
And then the
beginning of how you
start releasing these deep,
deep-seated-- sometimes
from past lives,
even-- trust issues.
>>EATOUGH: I really think
that trust and freedom
go hand in hand.
That you can't have
freedom without trust.
And as there's more trust,
freedom just naturally occurs.
Freedom to express yourself,
freedom to be yourself,
freedom to allow others in
your realm to be themselves.
Allowing.
Freedom is allowing and trust.
>>REGINA: And expressing
that, again, I
keep coming back to the
word genuine maturity.
And I'm not talking about age.
I'm talking about
self-responsibility,
being able to handle the
truth of another person.
Maybe there's
something about you
that is not working
for them, and you
have to be able,
with an open heart,
to show up and hear that.
Not just express yourself,
but to hear it in return, even
if it's painful,
and not run from it.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
Because there is
always the balance.
Agony and the ecstasy is a
great way of expressing it,
because it's always both.
It may not be both
simultaneously exactly.
But there can also be at certain
ecstasy within the agony.
There are people that seek
out painful situations because
of the intensity of it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>EATOUGH: But I
think we all want--
I don't know that
we all want it.
But I think more and more there
is an attraction to intensity.
I think this is why that
whole Fifty Shades of Grey--
>>REGINA: We want
peak experiences.
>>EATOUGH: We want
And I think that's
why people get
into even pain as an
intense experience,
and often cathartic for people.
>>REGINA: People
learn through pain.
Humans learn.
>>EATOUGH: But I
don't recommend always
seeking out painful experiences
and relationships just
to have the intensity.
But just recognizing that that
can be part of the process.
>>REGINA: You just
mentioned a moment ago
the Fifty Shades of Grey series.
What is it?
Because the demographic for that
is mostly younger women, right?
>>EATOUGH: Soccer moms.
>>REGINA: Soccer moms.
20s, 30s, 40s?
>>EATOUGH: 50s.
I'll tell you.
>>REGINA: Even 50s?
Really?
>>EATOUGH: Oh yeah.
Absolutely.
The interest in the books, yes.
>>REGINA: Even into-- OK.
But doesn't it skew
heavily female?
>>EATOUGH: Yes.
Oh, yes.
That's true.
>>REGINA: OK.
So when we're looking
at this fellow Christian
and this relationship he
has with this young girl,
what is it women are so
enthralled about and craving
that has just shot
this series of books
into bestseller status?
>>EATOUGH: Well
it's interesting I
was on a panel to discuss
this very question.
And there were a lot of
different views on that.
But I think part of it relates
to this craving intensity.
Romance novels have
been big forever,
and this just took it to
the next level of intensity.
I think, although
there is this--
I think it relates a little
bit to the fact that--
speaking of men and
women now specifically,
heterosexual
relationships-- women who
are strong or successful
or both in their work life
often have learned to use a
lot of their masculine energy
to succeed in a
male-dominated culture,
or a masculine-energy culture.
And so a lot of
times, people think
that's how they
want to be in bed.
But often what
they really want is
a man who can be more
masculine than they are in bed
and allow them to let go
into their feminine side.
But in a bubble of trust.
So you know that that person's
going to take care of you
as well.
So there's safety.
And I think that they get
into that in the books.
Frankly, I couldn't get
through the first one.
>>REGINA: I couldn't either.
>>EATOUGH: I was so bored.
>>REGINA: I was bored
and the writing was bad
but I thought, wow, these
girls are really into it.
>>EATOUGH: But I
understood the point.
And that is that
there is something
about sort of the extreme of
what I was just describing.
Being able to let go.
>>REGINA: Because there were
boundaries that were set up.
>>EATOUGH: There
were boundaries.
There was trust.
And there was eroticism
and intensity.
And so all of those things are
very alluring and very great
interest.
Now, on the other side, I
have a list of subscribers,
so I sent out a little
email blast saying,
have people read this book?
What's your experience of it?
Some were saying, oh,
they brought back ideas
to their relationship and
having fun and good stuff.
And others were
saying that it was
very sort of re-traumatizing.
Because they'd had
experiences that
were not put together as well--
>>REGINA: They were unwitting.
>>EATOUGH: They were unwitting,
or they got into relationships
where there was a
lot of harm done.
Not to say physically, but
emotionally, psychologically.
And so it was very
wounding to read that,
or they heard friends
reading it and they
didn't want to touch it
because they got triggered just
hearing about it.
So it's the full spectrum.
But on the other
hand, it does open up,
I think, more
permission for people
to explore their own
boundaries, to push their edges.
And I think that's
always a good thing.
Whether it's just
in your own mind
or to experiment
physically and emotionally.
But to push your edges.
>>REGINA: Because it's
expansive by nature
rather than contractive.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So that makes sense.
OK.
So a little bit
ago, we were talking
about how once you kind of
have a definition of what you
desire, and you've started
your spiritual development,
you can go into these more
ecstatic states of lovemaking.
And sometimes with a mature
relationship and partner.
But because of the
wounding often,
and the lack of trust where
people in relationships
wound each other
with harsh words,
maybe infidelity that breaks
trust, or other things
that break trust,
even money situations.
A lot of times people find that
it's really, really difficult
to then re-open up, as you
did in the honeymoon phase,
to that person.
And they'll go outside
the marriage or whatnot.
But let's talk about what
happens in first encounters.
One night stands.
>>EATOUGH: Actually, I think
we'll talk about this later,
but Jenny Wade, who wrote the
book-- who did the research
and wrote a book called
Transcendent Sex,
When Lovemaking Opens the Veil
is the subtitle of the book.
Basically, it was
on people who have
these unplanned, transcendent,
altered state experiences
during lovemaking.
And not necessarily
the same as what
I'd call ecstatic lovemaking,
but I was having those two.
And she found that
a lot of people
had these experiences
with somebody
that was on a one-time basis.
And everybody in 91 case studies
interpreted their experience
as being spiritual in
nature, interestingly.
But the one-night stands I
found particularly interesting,
because I think if you can
create momentary trust,
there's nothing to lose.
It could be dangerous,
but you're not
going to lose a
relationship because you
didn't have one to start.
And that's, I think,
the biggest fear,
is losing the relationship.
>>REGINA: Fear of
losing what you have.
Right.
>>EATOUGH: So I
think there's moments
that are sort of outside of
your normal life sequence
where people just allow
themselves to go for it.
It like, OK, I don't
care what happens.
This person I'm never
going to see again.
If they think I'm weird and
gross or I make weird sounds
or I want to do things that
I've never done before,
so what if they don't like me.
I don't ever have
to see them again.
>>REGINA: Right.
So the freedom comes with that.
And also there has been no
broken trust that has occurred.
There are no old
patterns playing out
between the two people.
It's innocent, in a sense.
>>EATOUGH: And
there's a difference
between relationship
trust and sexual trust.
>>REGINA: Talk about that.
>>EATOUGH: I have to
comment that I got this
from Alex Allman, a
colleague of mine.
He does sexuality work as well.
And he draws an analogy to you
can have a partner that you
trust with your life and
to help raise your kids
and financial trust and
all these kinds of things.
But you might not
have a great sex life.
And he likens it to
an airplane pilot.
When you're flying
in an airplane,
you don't care if you
have a great relationship
with that pilot.
You don't care if he's
got a good family life.
You don't care if
he's good financially.
But you want to know that he
knows everything and is very
well experienced and
trustworthy flying that plane.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>EATOUGH: And you want to know
that if the going gets rough,
he's going to make
it to the tarmac.
He's going to get
that plane down
in the worst
conditions possible.
And there's something about
somebody who has confidence
and you can trust them to take
care of your needs in bed.
And not necessarily
take care of your needs.
But you can explore
your own edges--
>>REGINA: Well, let
me ask you a question.
Let's go back just a sec.
>>EATOUGH: --and feel that
you can trust that person to--
>>REGINA: But is
the airline pilot
the one that you trust
in bed or out of bed?
>>EATOUGH: In bed.
>>REGINA: In bed.
>>EATOUGH: Because it's
situation-specific.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>EATOUGH: So you can have a
one-night stand with somebody
that just exudes this
sexual trustability in bed.
They might have
terrible relationships.
They might not be
able to make a living.
They might screw up everything
they do outside the bedroom.
And you might never want to
have a relationship with them
for many reasons, because
they wouldn't even
be trustworthy to
show up for a date.
But in this time and place,
they exude a trustworthiness,
a confidence, a skill
set and knowledge
that you can [SIGHS] sink into.
Oh, this is OK.
I can explore my boundaries.
And so if you can bring
that into your relationship
with someone that you love,
that's just fantastic.
>>REGINA: And someone that
you have relationship trust
developed with.
>>EATOUGH: Yes, yes.
That's the best,
I think, in terms
of our sort of
tendencies to want
to have it all in one package.
>>REGINA: And also,
this whole thing
of wanting to have it
all in one package--
I believe, in a certain
sense, in fairy tales.
I believe that the
honeymoon doesn't
have to last-- I mean that
the honeymoon doesn't have
to end, in terms of that
innocence and openness
and kindness to one another.
But I definitely
do not believe--
this is my belief system--
that you can necessarily
expect one person to
be all things to you.
>>EATOUGH: No.
>>REGINA: That is just--
I mean, our grandmothers
weren't looking
for ecstatic sex.
They were hoping someone
would pay the bills
and maybe not be violent
with them and not run away.
>>EATOUGH: And s stick
around long enough
to help them raise the kids.
>>REGINA: That was a different
expectation than now.
We want to have
everything, men and woman.
>>EATOUGH: Our expectations
out of our lives
have expanded so much, but
our cultural expectations
of relationship are still
pretty much the same.
>>REGINA: In the old age.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
You find the one, and
theoretically live happily ever
after.
But look at the--
>>REGINA: It's not
working out too well.
>>EATOUGH: --family structure.
Yeah.
The majority of
families aren't that.
And people feel guilty
for not doing that,
or they feel wanting
and longing that they
haven't done that properly.
And yet you start to see,
sort of under the radar,
more and more explorations of
different kinds of relationship
dynamics to start to
suit people's needs.
Because it may, in fact,
be pretty unrealistic to
expect all of that
from one person.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>EATOUGH: We don't expect
that from our friends.
>>REGINA: It's not even logical.
No, we don't expect
that from anything else.
>>EATOUGH: We may have
one friend that we
go to foreign films with, and
somebody else that we go hiking
and skiing with, because
they don't necessarily
have the same interests.
So we just get a
variety of friends.
>>REGINA: Yet we dump
this on our partner,
expecting them to be the 100%
package, everything to us.
And we were talking off
camera, that oftentimes
these ecstatic sexual
relationships may not
be during the period
of time that you're
raising your children
and really just looking
for stability in life.
You don't want to rock
the boat at those times.
And that begs a
lot of questions,
meaning what's that mean?
Does that mean you
have an affair?
learn to be creative,
create a new kind
of relationship
by mutual agreement?
Or does it mean you end up
going off with someone else
and getting a divorce.
It means a lot of
different things.
>>EATOUGH: It does mean a
lot of different things.
People work out
different things.
Some work out open
marriage agreements
with very specific boundaries.
Others are secretive
and have affairs,
which I think starts to
shut down that trust factor
subconsciously.
>>REGINA: And guilt.
Guilt feeds into it.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: That's not
good for ecstatic sex.
>>EATOUGH: I was very lucky.
I had a great partner
for raising my family,
and we did a lot of-- we had
a great, fun life together.
Travel and family.
And we actually had
an excellent sex life.
I thought it was normal.
I didn't realize that--
>>REGINA: There was
anything beyond.
>>EATOUGH: No, I didn't even
realize that everybody wasn't
having a decent sex
life in their marriages.
I thought it was just normal.
I was very fortunate.
But then, when
the impulse for me
to bring my spiritual
life, which I'd always had,
more and more into the
relationship-- which
was sort of not there.
That was a piece
that I was having
to share with my friends,
because it wasn't really
in the relationship in the
way that I'd always wanted.
But I had so much
in the relationship
that I could get that elsewhere.
But when I was
yearning, then, I sensed
that it was somehow available
through that intimacy
and sexuality but couldn't
go there with this person.
That was a challenge.
>>REGINA: I think a lot of
people can relate to that.
OK.
Now let's move into-- well,
you were talking about earlier
that part of the pathway to
our own higher consciousness
and these expansive,
peak experiences
can also be through sex.
That sex is the doorway
to the peak experience.
And sometimes vice versa.
And I've interviewed a
wonderful man a number of times
named Hank Wesselman.
And Hank,
anthropologist by trade,
but really he's started
making his path in life
as a result of having
these ecstatic experiences.
He was making love with
his wife, who they dearly
love each other.
And afterward, he
would find himself,
after going through
that blissful state,
in this altered state
of consciousness,
physically paralyzed.
Almost like people talk about
in abduction experiences.
His body would become
paralyzed, but his consciousness
was awake.
And suddenly, he was jettisoned
5,000 years into the future.
And that became the basis
of his original work
that he made public, was life
5,000 years into the future.
This rich, fully-developed
life that he
was living as his alternate
self 5,000 years in the future.
Of course, if you look at
the time-space continuum,
just collapse it,
now you could say.
But he said that that
doorway was always
his sexual experience,
that would happen
after making love with his wife.
And I know you know Hank, too.
You've taken workshops
from him and all.
What is your thought on that?
>>EATOUGH: Well,
he's the only one
I know of that's had that
particular kind of experience.
Personally, mine have always
been during lovemaking itself.
Although in the research
Jenny Wade's done,
she has a number of case studies
where people had experiences
after sex, still lying together
in each other's arms, where
they would then have an
altered state experience.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's talk about the
work of Andrew Greeley.
>>EATOUGH: Oh yeah.
Well, he wrote a book called--
>>REGINA: It says
here, Ecstasy--
>>EATOUGH: Ecstasy--
A Way of Knowing.
>>REGINA: I wrote it down.
>>EATOUGH: Yes.
And he had also done
some surveys and research
about people having ecstatic
experiences, by whatever sort.
And there's a number
of things that
tend to stimulate
ecstatic experience.
Being in nature is one of those.
But he also noted that music and
sex, sex being the most common,
was another trigger for
mystical experiences.
And so he wrote that his view
was that if people were having
better sex, if they knew
more about having good sex
and were having
more fulfilling sex,
that probably more
people would be
having these
mystical experiences.
And it was just recently, when
I was trying to research him--
the book's very hard
to get a hold of.
But I was researching
him on the internet.
I didn't know this.
I discovered he's a
Roman Catholic priest!
>>REGINA: Again, like Rocco.
This is interesting.
A very unlikely source
of this information.
>>EATOUGH: I think he's probably
a bit of a renegade, though,
because he's written
a number of novels
and such about things
going on in the Vatican.
>>REGINA: Does he write
it under a pen name
or under his own name?
>>EATOUGH: Under his name.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>EATOUGH: He's primarily
a novelist, apparently.
>>REGINA: That's pretty gutsy.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So now we get back.
In the beginning of
our conversation,
we were talking
about frequencies.
And in lieu of
our being able to,
without maybe quite
a lot of therapy,
transform our relationships.
Let's say we're
in a relationship
and we want to bring
it to the next level.
But you have your
relationship issues.
You have your trust issues.
You have something that's a
wonderful ally for people,
by way of working
with frequencies.
That, as you said in the very
beginning of the conversation,
can bypass certain judgments
and certain thought processes.
Can we talk about that
just a little bit?
We're going to have
another conversation
and go into some great
depths on this subject.
But we have some time.
>>EATOUGH: OK.
So you're talking
about the music?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>EATOUGH: So I
already mentioned
I was working with
light and color.
And the therapist--
I was actually
also working with these wands.
>>REGINA: What are the wands?
>>EATOUGH: Call them
the golden wands.
It's called this
Inner Quest system.
And they're literally these
wands, about 12 inches long,
and you hold them.
And they contain powdered
gemstones and crystals
and inert gases, and they're
connected to a little base
with a battery in it that puts
out a charge to activate them.
And the formulas relate
to different chakras.
And I found them really powerful
in working with clients.
I would say, we'd be
dealing with something,
so where are you
experiencing this?
And they'd feel it
in their stomach.
And then they'd go, I'm kind
of feeling it in my throat.
And I'd say, well, put
the wand on your throat.
Put the number two wand
on your throat, whatever.
And I remember this one
woman, her head went back,
and she let out this
bloodcurdling scream.
I thought the sirens
were going to come.
She goes, [GASPS] that's been
wanting to get out for so long.
And these are also
wands that could
be inserted vaginally
or rectally.
And I worked with people
in a very discreet manner,
under blankets and letting
themself insert and so forth.
And working with them
to process out rape,
molestation issues and so forth.
I had one woman who
was vaginally numb.
She could feel the pressure
during intercourse,
but she could never feel
any other sensations.
And after one session with that,
she went home to her partner.
She was so excited.
She called me, goes,
I could feel it all!
She was having great sex.
>>REGINA: Really?
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
So again, that's another
level of frequency.
The guy who created
those wands had also--
and this was a
number of years ago--
had put energetic
frequencies onto music CDs.
It's not putting sound on.
It's energy that is
carried on the sound.
It would be like white
noise, watery sounds.
And so I've been
experimenting with this stuff.
And you want a little
story about that?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We love stories.
>>EATOUGH: I had a
psychologist friend,
really my mentor with
the light and color.
He's in Texas, and he
and another colleague
were visiting from
visiting the Bay Area.
So my partner and I had
them over for brunch.
My partner was living
on a yacht at the time.
These CDs, I had eight.
One was first chakra,
second chakra, moving up.
And then that there was
an eighth one, which
was like psychedelic,
psychotropic.
It would infuse
psychotropic energies.
So we had on the vitality
one, which was for chakra.
And it was just background.
So I was making brunch
and we were chatting.
And then after a while, I
just couldn't get this food
together.
And people's conversations
were just like falling apart.
We couldn't follow
a train of thought.
And I'm like, it's
kind of odd, you know?
And then my partner, he admitted
that he'd-- the CDs all sounded
the same.
They were all the same water.
He had switched to
the psychedelic one.
And it was so affirming.
I thought, wow.
There is something to this.
So fast forward.
A number of years
later, I'm trying
to create music for lovemaking.
And all I knew to put in
it, that I knew what to do,
was brainwave entrainment,
to help take people
into the ideal state for
ecstatic lovemaking, which
has been, through
research, shown
to be the theta brainwave state.
Which is slower than alpha.
It's a state in which we're
usually asleep and dreaming.
But it's a state
where we have the most
access to our heightened
physical perception,
the most access to
our emotional states,
a more holistic awareness
of your own needs
and your partner's needs.
And some of the
people who are experts
in brainwave entrainment say
it's the ideal state for orgasm
and so forth.
So I was just trying to
get brainwave entrainment
into this music.
Once it was all produced,
I was introduced
to a man who had worked with
the guy who created the wands
and created this other
music I had been using.
He did mastering, CD mastering.
You have to master CDs
before you produce them.
And he had been
working for seven years
on these energetic frequencies.
They had been partners
in some way before.
They had gone their
separate ways.
He'd been working
on these frequencies
to connect sexuality
and spirituality.
>>REGINA: Well, bingo.
>>EATOUGH: And I'd been
working for all these years.
So it was a perfect marriage.
So then we set forth to get--
there were energy frequencies
that he'd been developing
into my music CDs.
>>REGINA: And then there's
a little back story to that.
Because as you were searching
for musicians to do this,
a lot of people
didn't want to be
associated with the notion of--
>>EATOUGH: Well, the
musicians didn't care.
But it was the people-- I
needed the brainwave entrainment
expert to help me create it.
Because we couldn't
use the binaural beats,
because you don't
wear headphones
when you're having sex, right?
Unless you've got
a headphone fetish.
And so there were three
top guys in the country who
were the brainwave
entrainment specialists.
And they knew it
was the right thing.
But they were trying to make
their own inroads into the--
>>REGINA: Did you talk
to the Monroe Institute,
for example at all?
>>EATOUGH: No, I didn't.
But I talked to
Jeffrey Thompson, who's
done a lot of these
brainwave entrainment CDs
and does the gamma and all
the different brainwave stuff.
And I talked to him
personally, met with him.
And he goes, yeah!
Theta is it!
It's the ultimate
state and we need
to make an orgasmatron
and blah blah blah.
He was totally into it.
But he said, we're
working so hard
to get legitimacy in
this field that sex
would put it over the edge.
>>REGINA: Again that fear.
>>EATOUGH: And the guy
that I worked with actually
had worked with Andrew Wylie
on his Sound Mind Sound Body
and so forth.
And I can tell you this.
It's not a secret.
He created the
brainwave tempo map
for the musicians, helped
me find the musicians.
He was instrumental in so
much of the whole system
that I developed.
But at the last
minute, when it got
to putting the credits on the
packaging, he said, you know--
>>REGINA: No can do.
>>EATOUGH: Because
it was OK before.
But then he just,
at the last minute--
>>REGINA: --this whole fear
factor, this perception factor.
>>EATOUGH: The
sexuality, I think
we'll just leave that off.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
But this is pervasive
within our culture.
>>EATOUGH: It's part of the
whole thing about our culture
and the sexuality
being considered
the dark side, that's sort of
the dark side of the feminine.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And, you know, as
you're talking,
I'm thinking about
something else.
Now, this is totally unrelated.
But I don't know,
maybe something
that-- we're going to
have another conversation
and really get into
those brainwaves,
and get into the different
states of consciousness.
Just so you're aware of that.
But just as a little finish
on this conversation,
something to check out is
there's something called TRE.
And I can't remember
what it means exactly.
It might have to do with
trauma release something.
That I interviewed a
fellow named David Berceli
a number of years ago on this.
It's become quite a big deal,
dealing with troops coming back
from Afghanistan.
Trapped trauma in
the body, and shaking
it out through a process
very simple, very primal.
Shaking it out.
And I'm understanding that
some really cool things are
happening around sex with
that release process, too.
>>EATOUGH: I'm not surprised.
>>REGINA: I just wanted to turn
you onto that for just a sec
before we sign off
for this conversation.
>>EATOUGH: Well, there's
a lot of movement in sex,
and it can help
vibrate it all out.
Alone or with a partner.
>>REGINA: This is the thing.
Just really briefly, before
we end the conversation.
How do you recommend people
begin-- because there's
another week or two before
they'll see conversation two--
start releasing that
trauma that's in the body?
Just we only have
a minute or two.
>>EATOUGH: Well, this music
is actually very helpful.
You can start working
with it on your own,
if you want to create a
really safe little bubble
for yourself, through
self-pleasuring.
Listening to the music.
I've had a number of
people say that they
get this music-- the music
is called Love Unbound.
It's part of my Music
for Better Sex product.
But they want to work with
moving their sexual energy
and tapping into
their sensuality.
And it can really
be very gentle.
I've yet to hear anybody have
any negative experiences.
I think it's possible
that you can.
But I just haven't had that.
People are generally
saying, women
are having easier orgasms
and multiple orgasms
for the first time.
People are finally tapped more
into a spiritual connection
with their partner.
Easier communication about
sexuality with their partner.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
>>EATOUGH: More spontaneity
and freedom during lovemaking.
So all these things
are happening
as a result of this
brainwave entrainment.
What I call auditory
pheromones infused into music.
>>REGINA: And so the mind
can be our greatest ally
or it can be our greatest
enemy during sex.
And we're going to pick that
conversation up and look
at having mindful, mystical sex.
>>EATOUGH: Out of the head,
and into the heart and body.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Thank you so much, Ellen.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
>>EATOUGH: To connect with Ellen
and her wisdom, her music also,
you can go to extatica.com.
That's E-X-T-A-T-I-C-A dot com.
You will also find a series of
articles and a self-assessment
as to your own sexual
experience in life.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]